docs(button): a11y wip (#23187)
angular/components: src/material/button/button.md

approach this to the consuming app.

### Accessibility

> Angular Material uses native <button> and <a> elements. Both of the two look the same when applied Material Design Styling, but have different semantic meaning for assitive technology. To ensure an accessible experience, choose the element which is most approprite for the purpose of the interaction.

Reviewer: > but have different semantic meaning for assistive technology

This phrasing makes it seem like they _only_ have different semantic meaning for AT, whereas they in fact have fundamentally different purposes for all users, not only those that use AT. For example, mouse users can right click links to open them in a new window, and cannot for buttons. You may consider rephrasing this, but feel free to ack.

Reviewer 2: +1 to it not being specific to assistive technoogy, I don't think there was anything wrong with the original sentence here. The goal here is to expand the content where necessary to fill in gaps rather than to completely rewrite everything.

Reviewer 2: Please wrap markdown at 100 columns

Reviewer 2: HTML tags should be wrapped in code ticks

#### Performing an Action
Use the `<button>` element for interactions that _perform an action on the current page_.
 - submitting a form
 - sending a chat message
 - copying content to the clipboard

#### Navigation

> Use the `<a>` element for interactions that _navigate to another view_.

Reviewer: > _navigate to another view_

You use "view" here, and "page" above. Are these synonymous? If so, consider just choose one and sticking with it throughout. Additionally, what exactly defines a view? If I'm on a page with a `mat-tab-group` and I switch tabs, am I navigating to another view? Does the URL need to change? Some guidance here might go a long way (but it can be tricky to author guidance here, so I understand if you want to keep things vague).

Reviewer 2: +1, I see that the original text said "view" which is too ambiguous. IMO we should say that anchors should be used when the page URL would change.

Reviewer: > IMO we should say that anchors should be used when the page URL would change.

One exception to this in our app are scenarios where we have components that "sync state" to the URL. For example, a `mat-tab-group` that syncs its state to the URL via matrix params (e.g. `;tab=overview`). In this case, the URL is changing, but tab is the correct role for this interaction. For this reason, I think we now say that links should be used if any URL path segments change (and maybe a subset of query parameter changes as well). It may be worth leaving a note mentioning this.

>  - navigating to a different page

Reviewer 2: I think that these two sections could convey their points more concisely and in paragraph form without the bulleted lists. Something like

```markdown
#### Choose the right element
You should use a button element for any action
that does not navigate to another URL, such as opening
a dialog or saving data. You should use an anchor element
for any interaction that navigates to another URL using either
`href` or Angular's `routerLink` directive.
```

 - navigating to a view in a single-page application
 - navigating to an element on the same page

> Use the `href` attribute when using the `<a>` element. The content of the `<a>` element should describe the link's destination.

Reviewer: > The content of the `<a>` element should describe the link's destination.

Is this a common mistake you foresee developers making? If not, consider removing.

Reviewer: > Use the `href` attribute when using the `<a>` element.

In practice, developers would be using Angular's `a[routerLink]` directive, which uses `href` under the hood, right? Depending on how Angular-specific this documentation should be, consider mentioning.

> #### Icon Buttons

Reviewer 2: I think we also discussed a brief section that mentions disabling anchors.

> #### Icon Buttons
> 
> For buttons or links containg only icons, follow the [instructions for interactive icons](https://material.angular.io/components/icon/overview#interactive-icons). This applies to `mat-fab`, `mat-mini-fab`, `mat-icon-button`, and any buttons that do not have text content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Icon Buttons
[See the documentation for `<mat-icon>` for additional guidance
on using icons with buttons and anchors](https://material.angular.io/components/icon/overview#accessibility).
```
The icon docs cover more than buttons/anchors that _only_ contain icons, but also guidance on just having icons in buttons generally.

Reviewer 2: Similarly, we could add another brief section like 
```markdown
#### Toggle buttons
[See `<mat-button-toggle>` for toggle buttons](https://material.angular.io/components/button-toggle). Avoid applying
toggle behavior to `MatButton`.
```

approach this to the consuming app.

### Accessibility

The ARIA spec gives different uses for buttons and links. In order to give the correct information to

> assistive technology, it is important to use the correct one for each situation. 

Reviewer 2: We don't really need to bring ARIA into this at all since, for button, we use the native `<button>` and `<a>` elements.

 - Use the `<button>` element for any interactions that _performs an action on the
current page_.
 - Use the `<a>` element for links. That is iteractions that _navigates to another
view_. This includes navigating to another page, another view in a single-page application and to elements on the same page. Include the href attribute when using the `<a>` element.

#### Links That Look Like Buttons

> Generally, the `<a>` should be used for interactions that perform navigation. It ensures that assistive technology has the

Reviewer 2: Try to avoid words like "Generally", "most of the time", "usually" etc. in technical writing. Here, we can say more authoritatively that "You should use anchors for navigation."

> correct semantic information for the interaction. If a `<button>` must be used, then do the following.

Reviewer 2: I would completely cut out the bit about "If a `<button>` must be used...". We should take a hard stance on "buttons are for actions, anchors are for navigation."

 - Give it the `role='link'` attribute.

>  - Assign an `href` attribute with the link's destination.

Reviewer: I'm a little confused by this advice. How can a developer assign an `href` attribute to a `<button>`? Even if it were possible, adding `role="link"` + `href` to a `<button>` is not sufficient to truly turn it into a link. For example:

* Links activate only on Enter, buttons activate on Space and Enter.
* Links can open a context menu with right click or the context menu button, buttons cannot.

At best, it may partially surface as a link to SR users, but to non-SR users, it's still very much a button. You might consider just removing the "If a `<button>` must be used .... " section along with the two bullet points, at least until we have a better understanding of _why_ someone would be in a position where they must use  a `<button>` over an `<a>`.

#### Icon Buttons
Buttons or links containing only icons (such as `mat-fab`, `mat-mini-fab`, and `mat-icon-button`)
should be given a meaningful label via `aria-label` or `aria-labelledby`.

> As always, images inside buttons should contain an meaningful alt text.

Reviewer: This is really only necessary if the image isn't purely decorative. For example, consider the following example:

```
<button>
  <img src="search-icon.png" alt="">
  Search
</button>
```

In this case, it's reasonable to hide the search icon/image from SRs with `alt=""` because it's "fully described" by the adjacent text "Search" (https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/decorative/).

Reviewer 2: I would go even further to say that people will almost _never_ put meaningful image content inside of a `mat-button` (people might wrap images in an `<a>`, but that's not related to use of `MatButton`). 

For icon buttons, I would link to the guidance for the icon component, since I don't want to repeat that information in two places.

Reviewer: Yeah, you're right per https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#children_presentational (of which `button` is one of the roles).

> #### Stateful Buttons

Reviewer 2: I would drop all of the content in this section and the next- we don't support stateful buttons with the `MatButton` component. At most, we should say something like "For toggle buttons, use `MatButtonToggle`"

> The mat-button supports the `disabled` attribute for indicating to the user that is cannot be interacted with. If a button needs to have binary states, such as for pressed/not pressed or on/off, consider using a Checkbox component or a Slide Toggle component. Use the Toggle Button component for interactions with more than two states.

Reviewer: > consider using a Checkbox component or a Slide Toggle component

Why? Buttons support the `aria-pressed` attribute for this scenario (https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#aria-pressed). Just looking to better understand this advice.

> #### Binary State Buttons

Author: Note to reviewers:

With this pattern, I'm thinking about the [Toggle Button from the Inclusive Components Blug](https://inclusive-components.design/toggle-button/). I called it the binary state button because the [material toggle button](https://material.io/components/buttons#toggle-button) means making radio buttons look like buttons.

If a `button` must be used for an interation that has two states, then follow these guidelines.

Use one of the following options to indicate the state of the button. Do not use both because it can provide confusing
information to assistive technology.
 - Toggle state by setting `aria-pressed="true"` and `false`
 - Toggle state by reassigning the button label \(e.g. _on_/_off_\)

Use `button` elements, not `a` elements

We recommend using styles that target the aria-pressed attribute, rathen than toggling a CSS class for `pressed`/`not-pressed`.

An alternative approach to make a checkbox that looks like a button using the following steps.

 - Give the button a `role='checkbox'` attribute.

>  - Assign `aria-checked='true'` or `'false'` to indicate the current state.

Reviewer: You'll also need to ensure that the psuedo-button-checkbox only activates on Enter, and not space, as native buttons do. In general, I'm a little weary about providing guidance on how to overriding elements' default roles appropriately because it's tricky to do so and also exacerbates confusing UX in applications as well as https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/consistent-identification.html (e.g. it's better to just have checkboxes that look like checkboxes and buttons that look like buttons than to mix and match visuals and semantics).
